Resub evt3 (#39)
cruse-bike/paper: paper.qmd

> "It's a missing piece of evidence that will help new projects get built" (Dónal Hodgins, Senior Engineer, Sustainable Transport & Traffic Management, Kildare County Council)

> Practitioners in Kildare County Council found that the evidence generated *was already valuable* for the development of new cycle routes, especially when making the case during planning applications.

Author: :+1:

They emphasized that cycle networks are often fragmented, and the tool allows them to demonstrate how individual local schemes can contribute to a larger, interconnected network.
An unexpected piece of feedback from the workshop was the preference for visualizations that directly compare the fast and quiet routes, as they recognize the importance of both types of routes.
In response to this we provided the 'Route types' page for each county, although this functionality is not available in the landing page map due to other feedback requesting a simpler interface.

> In comparison with another cycling propensity tool, the CRUSE tool was seen by practitioners in Kildare as more user-friendly, with the ability to generate evidence at the route level, which is crucial for planning new cycling infrastructure.

Author: :+1: but would make it a bit shorter:

Author: ```suggestion
In comparison with another tool for transport planning, CRUSE was seen by practitioners in Kildare as more user-friendly.
They found the evidence at the route level (unavailable in other tools) crucial for planning new cycling infrastructure.
```

Specific suggestions from the workshop included the suggestion to align scenarios with national strategy (resulting in the Climate Action Plan scenario) and to provide data downloads provided as 'Shapefiles' for further analysis (now implemented although the download format is GeoPackage, an open standard for spatial data).

In a subsequent interview with a practitioner using the evidence generated by the CRUSE approach in their everyday work, we received the following feedback.

> The outputs were found to be a "useful tool for getting schemes started; and provides good detail to supplement the strategic rationale for intervention within Project Outline Documents, via the cycle friendliness maps and the baseline / near market cyclist estimates”. As a result, the CRUSE tool “is ideal for generating a strategic rationale for estimating demand and building the business case in the absence of cycle count data; it is also very useful at the detailed design stage and the CRUSE estimates can (and have been used) to supplement the economic appraisal of cycling schemes” (Declan Keenan, Senior Transport Planner TII working on active travel, personal communication).

Author: :+1: so great to see this detail.
